well gersan Baskin is Middle East
director with the international
communities organization he joins us
live now from West jeruslem why go into
Rafa at
all well there there are two things that
are may be going on right now this might
be the launch of the Israeli incursion
into Rafa that the Israeli government
and army have been speaking about now
for several months where they believe
that in order to defeat Hamas finally
they need to eliminate the four Hamas
brigades that between kanun and Rafa and
it is also believed by Israel that this
is where the majority of the Israeli
hostages 132 of them may be found um but
it might not be the full incursion right
now it might just be a response to the
launching Yesterday by Hamas of mortars
and Rockets from a humanitarian Zone
into Israel in which three Israeli
soldiers were killed and 10 others were
wounded several of them in critical
condition so I mean Netanyahu has said I
mean he has said that he's going into
Rafa because he needs to destroy the
four remaining Hamas battalions that are
there um he has indicated that there's
no way uh that they need to go there to
access Hamas but I suppose um saying
that in itself acknowledges that uh the
last seven or eight months has been
something of a failure because they've
not destroyed Hamas and they've not
provided any of the sort of
assassinations of high level figures
within the group so suppose that the
worry is that uh military operation
being a complete failure up to now will
simply cause more uh humanitarian
suffering in in
Rafa right there there is no military
victory in in a war like this and Israel
needs to understand this um Hamas is an
idea and an ideology that cannot be
destroyed by military there have to be
political solutions to deal with the
reality of Hamas and the reality of Gaza
and this is not being done but I would
also say to Hamas that if they want to
prevent the Israeli incursion into Gaza
more death and destruction unnecessarily
death and destruction hamash should
accept the deal that's on the table now
even if it doesn't meet all of their
demands because it will bring about a
ceasefire and a halt to the war for
weeks maybe months and certainly ham
Hamas did indicate that it would forgive
me Hamas did indicate that they would
agree to the Egyptian proposal and move
ahead with the first stage but they were
relying on guarantees that the war would
end and then there would not be an
invasion of Hamas which of course
Netanyahu said would happen regardless
of whether or not there's a
deal right but I I think that there
won't be guarantees no one can provide
those guarantees and Hamas wants Israel
to declare that it will end the war and
that's not going to happen so we're in a
deadlock situation where Israel is is
continuing on with the war and the
military incursion into Gaza into Rafa
and this should be avoided if Hamas just
said yes now they will get Palestinian
prisoners freed there will be a
ceasefire there will be free movement
for displaced people in Gaza to move
from the south to the North and the
Egyptians and the qataris have all said
that they will work hard together with
the Americans and others to ensure that
the war will not be renewed there's no
guarantee there's no re the best chance
there's no reason to believe that
Palestinians would be released and they
would displaced people would be able to
return I mean you've seen the incredible
apocalyptic destruction of this tiny
strip of land where now a population of
a couple of hundred thousand in Rafa has
become one and a half million because of
people who've haded to shelter there an
invasion would ultimately push those
people South towards Egypt you know they
could try to return as you're say I
guess you're saying they could try to
return to Central or Northern Gaza but
of course you know that they would face
more attacks by the Israeli military
which has been attacking so-called safe
zones they they kill everyone
everywhere well I I think that as I said
the best way to prevent this from
happening and to end the war is to begin
with a ceas fire that will release
Israeli hostages and release Palestinian
prisoners and allow people free movement
there is no guarantee that would that
would be the end of the war and there
would be no more provocations not from
Hamas and not from Israel but the best
way to move forward at this point is to
accept the Egyptian deal that's on the
table even if it's less than perfect get
a ceasefire and allow people the freedom
to move a little bit to breathe a little
bit to get food and medical supplies
that they need again there are no
guarantees here we're in the midst of a
very very evil War but this needs to
come to an end Israel is not willing to
surrender Hamas is not willing to
surrender there is a ceasefire offer on
the table I suggest we all accept it and
try to figure out how to end this war as
soon as possible Goan Basin thank you
for joining us on the
newsour thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer